my books wouldn't be as good if I if I
hadn't gone through that trauma welcome
Richard Osman ladies and gentlemen
bestselling novelist television producer
presented you know if you have a trauma
of any type and and you are looked after
and you're guided through it you can
come out the other side if however
you're sort of left alone in your trauma
your own Solutions never work I never
sat and thought oh I've got a problem
with my life but I would have addictive
behaviors around food when did you
realize that it was their strange
Behavior I me it's an addiction there's
no other way of putting it it's like
having a bottle of vodka then having
another bottle of vodka then having
another bottle of vodka if you see
somebody is different they do not need
to be told I've had that with my height
you know and I know you're just thinking
yeah but it's just me you think yeah but
it's just you and five other people
every single day I didn't live the life
I should have done for many years I wish
I'd been more myself in those years and
I would have taken much less success and
much more happiness what what is
happiness gosh that's a good question
well his his here's the way I always
think about it that makes a lot of sense
you
think before this episode begins I just
want to say a huge thank you to all of
our new subscribers 74% of you that
watch this channel didn't subscribe
before and we're now down to about 71%
so that helps us in a number of ways
that are quite hard to explain but
simply the bigger the channel gets the
bigger the guests get so if you haven't
yet subscribed to the DI of a SE if I
could have any favors from you if you've
ever watched the show and enjoyed it
it's just to please hit the Subscribe
button without further Ado I'm Steven
Bartlett and this is the D of a CEO I
hope nobody's listening but if you are
then please keep this to
[Music]
yourself Richard
Stephen what do I need to know about you
and your earliest years to understand
the man you went on to be and all the
things you went on to do uh it's a good
question well if you mean professionally
the man I I I I went on to be um I grew
up loving popular culture loving
mainstream culture loving mainstream
television um so you know that's always
been in my soul uh I came from a big
workingclass family and now find myself
in a very middle class world so I I I
sort of have a sense of what different
people um from different places in
Britain like to watch or like to read uh
so that really and you know I grew up i'
U visually very visually impaired so I
don't see the world particularly
brilliantly but I'm always listening to
the world I'm always interested in what
people are saying and you know getting
that sort of thing uh so I think that
combination of things means I've had a
career of sort of working out what
people might quite like and then finding
the right people to help me make those
things your your earliest years kind of
reminded me of mine in many ways because
I I almost view my earliest years as two
chapters there was for me there was the
first chapter which was really Pleasant
I remember it being a very happy home
and then there was a second chapter
which would I could describe basically
as dysfunctional yes and a bit of bit of
a nightmare yeah there there there's
similarity so I was I was I was nine my
father left when I was nine and this
being the 1970s we didn't really see him
again it wasn't sort of it wasn't touchy
feely oh everyone still loves each other
it was you know off off he went and so
yeah I was probably the same but quite
happy gol lucky up to that age and then
afterwards you sort of have to you know
build a mask for yourself a little bit
and you know pretend you're okay and
pretend you're not in pain uh weirdly
and that ability to sort of create your
own narrative
was helpful in my later care career you
know I'd rather not have had it but that
ability to sort of pretend that
everything's okay and to to write a
different story um which is which is uh
very much what I did but um yeah I think
that anyone who's had that sort of
Disconnect uh it affects them one way or
another and it was very you know an
unhappy time and it's led to lots of
unhappiness uh since then but it doesn't
make me unhappy anymore for sure I've
absolutely come to terms with it come to
peace with it um and you know I always
say trauma is not the problem it's in
inability to deal with trauma is the
problem you know if you have a trauma of
any type and and you are looked after
and you're guided through it you can
probably come out the other side if
however you're sort of left alone in
your trauma and you come up with your
own Solutions your own Solutions never
work uh so I definitely had that but um
I try and use it you know I'm very
connected still to the nine-year-old
weirdly because I've had that sort of
interregnum where I was a slightly
different person so I'm always able to
um I'm always able to find that
9-year-old and that 9-year-old was very
interested in new things and what's on
tell and you know uh who's playing
football this afternoon and you know
what's in the pot charts and you know
that's the stuff that I loved when I was
nine and it's the stuff that I still
love now I'm always always what's next
what's next what's next you talked you
talked I think it was a Sunday Times
interview you did where you said at that
age you had to manufacture yourself a
little bit and I found that really
interesting because I've heard this a
few times from a few different people
I've sat here with that have undergone
uh sort of a tectonic shift in their
early years what do you mean by
manufacture yourself a little bit well I
think when you get into your teenage
years you are working out who you are
and you know we could we we we all of us
change and we change in you know in
reaction to the world around us and
thing new things that we experience and
new friends and new schools you know we
become different people but I think if
at the heart of it there is a lie so my
lie would be everything is okay I don't
need my dad to be around it's okay that
I hear my mom crying at night you know
if that's my lie then everything I build
is built on a fault line you know so
everything is built on that fault line
so however big I build the you know my
personality there's going to come a
point and happened to me probably late
20s when there's an earthquake because
that fault line gets bigger and bigger
and bigger and bigger so it's just but
we all build our personalities and if
you build them on truth if you build
them on firm foundations if you build
them on good faith then you know you
have a chance if you build them on fault
lines then it always com comes out that
makes a lot of sense you think yeah
because that's that's completely
consistent with when I've sat here with
people who've spent Decades of their
life or Decades of their career even um
building thems up on a li or as you've
referred to as a wearing a mask um the
the earthquake always comes well here's
here here's the way I always think about
it listen people tell you there's no
such thing as truth and of course that
that's true I get it there's no such
thing as actual reality but I think our
personality we sort of have a true north
right which if nothing goes wrong or if
we respond to trauma well we carry on
our life and the true north goes up
through us and we sort of dance around
it and we can sort of wander in and out
the fields around this sort of True
North if you deviate from True North
especially very young then suddenly True
North is here and you're heading off in
this direction right and for quite a
while you're not very far from your true
north but if you're like 15 20 years in
you're so far away from what you should
be right now you don't know that you're
telling a lie okay that's the absolute
key you don't know that you're lying to
yourself right so what you're seeing is
the reality of the world seems alien to
you and you can't work out why you think
why why don't I fit in what why why am I
not sort of doing the right things and
it's because you're so far away from
where you need to be and lots of people
will fill that Gap with um addictions
and drugs and booze and and weird
behaviors but eventually I think most
people work out the reason the world
doesn't seem right is I'm not right you
know and some people narcissists will
try and drag the world to them look at
Trump he tries to drag the world to him
all the time okay because of his
childhood and which we get right but
most people at some point just go no I
need I've got to make that leap I've got
to LEAP back to where I was which is a
long journey but but a worthwhile one
but I think it's just we just keep going
just slightly off course slightly off
course and the longer that goes on for
the further we are from where we should
be if you were to um have stayed on your
true north M throughout that whole
period what would you have done instead
oh well it's a very good question uh I
sort of think that I would have done
roughly the same thing I think I would
have ended up in in TV or journalism or
writing one way or another I think that
and especially think this with the books
I think that it has given me an empathy
for people and for pain and you know I
see pain in other people all the time
and I see Denial in other people all the
time uh and I think those things
go through the books so I think my books
wouldn't be as good if I if I hadn't
gone through that trauma uh you know and
again I trade the two off in a heartbeat
so I think I would have done the same
thing but I don't think it would have
had the same soul is the truth and
therefore I don't think it would have
had quite the same impact or success you
say you you trade the two off in a
heartbeat yeah What happiness for cuz I
mean listen you you've been enormously
successful right but the question is why
okay what are you after right are you
after money okay you after money but why
what what is it that money is doing for
you it can buy you certain things okay
why do you want those things what are
they doing for you and the answer is
always one thing which is happiness
contentment right just comfort in and of
yourself that's all you want is to wake
up in the morning and be comfortable
with who you are to have enough and to
be comfortable with who you are uh and I
think that you know that's the thing
happiness is the only thing we seek and
if IID grown up happier I think I would
have found happiness easier to find and
you know my happiness has been hard one
and I'm happy you know now it's great
cuz I'm 51 and I'm I'm in this lovely
place but then you know there's sort of
10 15 years where you think oh you know
what I wish I'd I wish I'd been more
myself in those years uh and I would
have taken much less success and much
more happiness it's funny I asked that
question because I remember Mo gadat
sitting here and talking to me about the
Eraser test they did on people where
they asked people if you could remove
the most traumatic events of your life
would you do it and he says that 95% of
people says they would say they wouldn't
yeah I think it's interesting that
because I I don't think people I I don't
think it's a real question because what
you're really saying to people is would
you erase who you are and would you
erase and you know of course you
wouldn't of course you would not erase
who you are because it's very dear to
you however if you were able to live
that other reality and live this reality
and see which one of these do you prefer
I think you'd say the one without the
trauma is my opinion none of us would
ever say yes I want to erase who I was
okay I mean it's crazy but actually the
truth is if we had the two side by side
like a you know a Costa and a Starbucks
and say which would you prefer we would
pick the uh we'd pick the the um I don't
know which is the best one I don't know
either I think I don't know I don't want
to exactly what I was thinking I don't
know I don't know what it cost to all
Starbucks they're both they're both fine
companies I imagine there's a lot of
people listening to this now that have
had a traumatic event happen to them or
of course they going to have traumatic
events in their future what I'm really
interested in is knowing the impact that
your decision to no longer see your dad
and however else you behaved at that
time had on you later how in hindsight
do you think it would have been better
to act better for me to act I I don't
think it's a question for me cuz I'm 10
10 11 years old right and I'm I'm not
I'm I'm I'm not the sort of significant
actor in that situation you know you you
you're not able to rationalize the world
correctly you know it's for the people
around you and this this no disrespect
by the way to the people around me
because you have very very different
times and my M just been through the
most extraordinary trauma I mean much
more than I had been through and so she
was not in a position to act in my best
interest there and my dad wasn't in a
best position to to work in my interest
and nobody was no one knew you know
there's lots of talk about mental health
now and isn't it you know uh but no one
talked about that stuff back then I mean
they really really didn't talk about
that stuff back then you know it just
didn't exist you know you you it was the
sort of Hangover from the kind of
postwar years where you just didn't
complain you know and that that's still
the mindset we had so listen if if if it
had happened uh more recently yeah it
would have been much simpler and listen
I'd have found a different trauma you
know it's personality type seekout
trauma is the truth uh and I would have
found a different trauma um to explain a
way my differences but I think that um
yeah I I think that had it happened 30
years later conversations would have
been had people would have sat in rooms
and we' have worked out what the best
thing to do was but it's the world was
such a different place in sort of 1979
it sort of feels very very recent to me
uh but you know the world world was an
entirely different place I we didn't
even have to have those conversations in
1992 when I was born yeah I think that's
right they started showing up about 10
years ago I think the conversations
around mental health and mental
well-being before then even the prospect
of being mentally ill had this like
horrible stigma that associated with
like stray jackets and asylums not we
didn't think of the fact that we all
have mental health I think I think
that's exactly right and listen there's
an awful lot wrong with our this new
social media Ace but one of the good
things is if you are different then you
are supported and you have friendships
around you I'm listen you're also
attacked that's the problem with social
media rise because you know suddenly
you're seen as a group uh but you are
supported and you can find like-minded
people you can find people in the same
position no one at my school was from
divorced parents you know it just didn't
you know when I went to comprehensive
school there's a few more but not really
uh and now of course you know you can be
on you know you can be online and you
can meet a thousand people in your
situation in one evening you know and
that I think it would would would be
rather helpful you've talked about how
you've come to peace with that
resentment that you had with your
father how oh easily because he's a
human being and I got it and I got to
the age that he was when he left saw the
situation that he had found himself in
and I thought yeah I get it I see why
you would do that you know I did the
same I you know I left the mother of my
children um hopefully in a very
different way but um you know I
absolutely get it he found himself in a
situation he couldn't get out of um so
ran away and you know I met him in later
life and he's an all right guy you know
he's a perfectly decent man but he
didn't have the language and he he
didn't have the brain space for for that
sort of conflict he just didn't have it
he just was in a situation he didn't
want to be in and ran away which is
which is very common and again people
you know do it less now because you know
you you can talk to people and Men
didn't talk to other men then you know
he found himself at a place in life
where he just thought I'm not who I need
to be you know I'm unhappy and so he
found an excuse and left and so I've
always you know I have no resentment to
towards him anymore I get it I sort of
wish that I loved him and I wish that
there was that I felt that love and I
wish I had that big sort of family thing
but gosh there's worse problems in the
world um but but of course I understand
why he did it you know this it's the
age-old story people have been doing it
for generations and they'll keep doing
it empathy was your yeah I think so and
and and it's um an empathy for one's
enemies I don't wish to call them an
enemy but you know what I mean for
someone who's who's an antagonist in
your life rather than a protagonist
people talk a lot about empathy and I
think they don't have empathy for their
their opponents or for people who
disagree with them or for people who
who've lived a different experience H
and you think that's empathy empathy is
not just saying I feel sorry for people
or can we help people you know that of
course is empathy and it's kindness but
empathy is also why does half the
country disagree with me you know why
does half the country live their life in
a in a different way why do they not
care about what I care about that's
acual empathy and that's that that's in
Shor of Supply I would say but yeah
learning to forgive someone who's who's
caused you trauma uh and not forgive but
but understand the FR say to understand
all is to forgive all which I which
which I sort of I sort of get um you
know if you're inside someone's head you
go okay I see it I see why you did it so
listen I'd rather he hadn't done it but
I understand entirely why he did and and
yeah that's that's I guess a very good
example of empathy the sort of empathy
you you wish you didn't have to have but
um you know it's very useful you needed
more information on his context to get
that empathy or or was it because you
use the word learning to forgive yeah
which I think is an apt to word cuz it's
not easy to to do that it's not just a
decision we can well it is I guess to
some part but it's a very difficult
decision to make to to really well I
mean look in in my situation I hadn't
seen him for 20 years and then I did see
him um maybe a bit less maybe 18 years
and so yeah I'd had a long time to Build
That Wall around me I had a long I you
know I'd had conversations with him in
my head a lot and you know the
conversations you have people who aren't
there become very powerful and you know
you you constantly have that
conversation again this is what I would
say this is what I would say uh and then
you meet up and you start saying a
couple of those things and you're just
there with a guy who's just saying look
I was just unhappy and you know I love
you and you know I wish I hadn't had to
do it you just go it takes the sting out
of all the conversations you've had over
the years now for me he didn't have the
conversations with me that I needed you
know there was no he wasn't really
apologetic he didn't really understand
the first thing he said to me is I I bet
you wonder what I've been up to since I
left and I thought not really you know I
sort of think maybe what I've been up to
might be of interest to you and so he he
he he didn't he didn't have he didn't
have the vocabulary to to to reform the
relationship is the truth um and I sort
of felt he hadn't needed it but I I i'
said to him towards the end of his life
I did say have you had a happy life
there have you had a happy life since
you left and he said yes I thought you
know what that's that's fine for me
that'll do me listen it's I'd rather he
was happy but um yeah it's
uh it's it's a it's a long journey to
sort of go do you know what I get why he
did it and now the stuff that I built up
around it is now my responsibility and
and and and it's my thing to deal with
not his and in that interview I think
with the Sunday Times you said you you
went to his funeral and you found
yourself very you found yourself upset
but not at what one would think yeah I
thought I went down with my brother
funly enough who who had even less to do
with him than I did and my kids were
there and it it was so
unemotional uh and you know I was very
careful you know I thought no com
remember that sometimes these things hit
you and this is your father and he's
died uh
and I couldn't connect with him I cried
briefly at the end cuz I cried because
of what could have been because of the
relationship I missed but I wasn't
crying for him uh and from the next day
on it didn't hit me again there was no
kind of Aftershock uh and that's sort of
the that's really upset me that there
was not cuz I'm an Emo very emotional
person I'll cry anything I'll cry the
repair shop uh and I was sort of
thinking this this has not knocked me
particularly uh and I thought that was
very sad because what a what a waste of
love you know what a waste of things
that could have been and my brother was
the same I could you know I said to my
kids did Uncle mat cry and they went no
no no no so you know it's it's the same
thing and you know people around him
were crying and you the people who he
loved and who loved him so he built that
life you know without us but for me I
just thought oh that's there it is you
know my grandparents funerals I was
crying but my father's funeral it was
just I was glad I was there but there
was there was it just you can't lie and
pretend that it connects when it doesn't
you seem to be more significantly more
shaped by Brenda ah my mom yeah no I'm
definitely I'm definitely shaped by her
I didn't have any other option than to
be shaped by her cuz it was just me her
and my brother in the house yeah no I
was very lucky to whatever my trauma and
listen we can overestimate these things
cuz I was brought up in a very loving
household and brought up in a very smart
household and my mom uh became a primary
school teacher uh after my dad left and
you know just very wise and very
protective and you know uh so I I really
in the sort of Lottery of life's parents
I I have to accept that the one I had
was an awful lot better than the two
that many people have give me a flavor
of her her character and personality and
her her manner well she is let's say
she's a she's a primary school teacher
so she's used to um you know if you ever
went into a into a class that my mom was
teaching they'd be silent if she wanted
them to be silent but she's very very
softly spoken and where she is now in
her Retirement Village which is the
basis of the Thursday Murder Club books
she's surrounded by people with very
strong opinions of very strong
personalities and my mom looks like she
wouldn't say boo to a goose she looks
like she's very unassuming uh but you
know I know after these big meetings
where they're all shouting at each other
my mom will be the one to stand up and
just say I wonder if we should do this
and give the solution to the thing you
know while everyone else is eos have
sort of blown themselves out she sort of
slips in and sort of says I wonder if we
do this and that's not just by the way
oh I'm kindly and wise it's also she
wants to get her own way and she knows
she knows that that's the way to do it
so yeah she she's she she's very bright
very quiet very unassuming uh and sort
of is the opposite of of of a tiger
mother you know these mothers that make
sure you're doing you know piano
practice and French lessons and you know
learning Mandarin and all this kind of
stuff she just she let me watch TV she
let my brother play his guitar and sort
of trusted that we'd find our way in
life and that's I think certainly for me
and my brother often the best way to
bring up kids is is to is to let them
find what they love and just let them
get on with it that decision to just let
you watch the
Telly pretty formative I guess well yeah
and and and you know listen we can
always look back in hindsight and go she
was a genius she knew that that was
going to be my career but I think that
she realized when I was watching TV that
I wasn't doing it passively and which is
true when I was watching TV I was always
looking at the credits who does what on
a TV show what are the names of these
people and you know if there were jokes
on a sitcom thinking oh that's
interesting why why did that make me
laugh but that that bit doesn't make me
laugh or formats you know how do why do
they always end on a round in a qu show
where you can catch up loads of points
what's that about so I was never
watching passively I was always I was
fascinated with I was always interested
with it uh and I think that she I see it
with my son on computer games he plays
games all the time but then he he's
talking to me about the industry and
he's talking to me about how they
monetize it and he's talking to me about
you know different forms of games and I
just think great you could keep playing
games then because that's the thing that
you love and so long as you're
interested in how it's put together then
you know that become a career and I
don't think my mom thought I ever would
have a career in Teddy because we didn't
know anybody like that but I think she
just sort of trusted that something was
going in and that you know I was never
interested in school work I just not it
it wasn't my thing at all I I could get
by but it never sparked my interest
really uh but TV always did and the
stuff I was watching and Sport always
did you know I'd watch and watch and
watch and that's you know almost all my
lessons would take you know again with
someone who's very visually impaired I
can sit up very close to the Telly so
you know so many of my lessons are from
from TV not not from The Real World cuz
the real world I can't really see it you
know you can't really see it well
everything's in a fog I mean that's the
that's the point so I I never noticed
details if I want to see a bird in a
tree or a cricket ball going towards a
bat I can't that's not something I can
see never will do I can't drive or
anything like that was on TV the whole
world is out there I can go in you know
I've never been a big traveler anything
like that I I want to stay at home but I
can watch any country in the world on
television you know that's the thing
that I can see and I'm Ed the reason I
don't want to travel is I don't want to
travel I don't want to get on a plane I
don't I don't want all of that but I
want to learn about places I want to see
things and TV you just it just shows you
everything and it showed me everything
uh and it introduced me to people and
you know even now I watch daytime TV I
get so much information about human
beings from watching those shows and
seeing people's reactions which I don't
see in real life you know cuz I'm up
close to it I get to see it all and TV's
given me all of that you know and uh I
think TV is so huge and such a huge part
of our culture we sort of I think we
forget it exists I think we forget quite
what a powerful thing it is we talk
about Cinema and music and all this kind
of stuff and this is the age of
Television you know this is my
generation I think perhaps the your
generation the next one it's going to be
much less so but television is the thing
it's in the corner of everybody's rooms
you know and it shows us so many things
it teaches us so many things uh but it's
so or it's it became too successful that
we sort of take it for granted and now
we'll say oh TV's collapsed you go yeah
but country f is getting 6 million
viewers you know that's like it's a lot
of people you know and um I've I've so
much of what I know about the world and
what people like and politics and that
comes from TV and what what people watch
nigus is that how you pronounce itus
nagus yeah stmas that's the condition
you've had since birth yeah so you
wouldn't you wouldn't know any otherwise
I'm guess yeah exactly I've I've always
um yeah my eyes it's always been blurry
and it's like an uncontrollable moving
of the the pupils I did once I never use
AQ on television I can't see it uh and
once when I did have I got news for you
they because it's all gags that are
written you have to and I was hosting
they said you're going to have to use it
you usually I can learn stuff but that
is a whole script worth of gags so I
couldn't so they gave me they said look
this is the AQ that Brucey uses so
you'll be fine and even that it wasn't
big enough I said you've got to move it
nearer make it bigger in the end we we
we got it big enough uh but when people
were watching it they said oh is Richard
Osman drunk because they could see the
effort of having to focus on something
my eyes were going absolutely crazy so
people think you're drunk and so I never
hosted it I just went you know what I'll
be a guest where you know I don't have
to and I never use orq on any shows and
again that's one of those silly things
where what feels like a disadvantage is
a huge Advantage because you know so
many TV shows and we were talking just
before we came on air about about how
shows are edited and I'm think about
House of games think about Dragon's Den
they're edited in in in a in a very sort
of military way you know they got the
same shots each time and the one thing
I've got controlled over is what I say
and the second something is on AQ you
say the same thing because the producers
put the same thing in because they got
other things to be worried about and the
fact that I don't have it on AQ means I
I just say different things each time
you know and it's looser and it's Freer
and people can watch five episodes in a
week and I haven't introduced any of
them in the same way to the others and
so I've turned that thing of not being
able to see to an advantage which is you
know I present television shows
differently in a way that's hopefully a
bit Freer and feels a bit more natural
the other thing you talk about and I've
seen this in a few interviews is your
height being something you've almost
contended with and it's you know it's
interesting because um a lot of short
men want to be tall men and to hear a
tall man say yeah speak as if he would
rather be a little bit shorter is is
quite surprising well I'm 6' seven which
is too much is the truth uh and you know
it it it makes you extraordinary look my
eyesight is not people can't see that
right okay so that's mine and that's
internalized and you know I deal with
that how I want to my height is
something that people can always see and
I find it I find it fascinating again in
this world of social media when when
when people talk about microaggressions
and stuff that you must have seen your
entire life which is if you're different
in any way right you're reminded of it
non-stop you know mostly you know people
are not being cruel sometimes they are
now I have a height so I'm not being
discriminated against because of my
height right it's not you know I'm not
it's not costing me anything but I do
know that every single day of my life
I'm reminded of it every single day but
just Non-Stop and so I know that to be a
person of color to be differently
gendered to be all of these things I
know that the microaggressions I get
you're getting non-stop every day of
your life and in a much more harmful way
so I've always hopefully really really
understood the idea of microaggressions
and the idea that please I hear this
every single day even if you're trying
to be kind you know if you see somebody
is different they do not need to be told
they do not need it pointed out every
single day because everyone has told
them their entire life that they're
different you know and I know you're
just thinking yeah but it's just me you
think yeah but it's just you and five
other people every single day forever
and you know I've had that with my
height forever and ever and ever I'm for
incredibly self-conscious and most
people are perfectly nice some people
are horrible because some people it's
it's a really good radar for what people
are like I call it a c-word radar
sometimes this being different in any
way and which I perhaps you'll agree
with which is so many people are sort of
lovely and chat but then you know a
couple of times a day there's just
someone who wants to shout you out of a
window or just wants to make you feel
small ironically you know that's what
they want to do and you just think why
what someone's a bit different to you
and you got to shout something and make
your yourself feel a bit better you know
and so being different in any way
whatsoever I think really teaches you
about people and about the hate that's
out there and about the unhappiness
that's out there because that's where it
all comes from and so being tall yeah
has taught me about microaggressions and
and and has made me try and fight for
people who are different and has made me
just say to people if someone is
different right just talk to them
normally you don't need to it's we never
had the word but sometimes I'll sort
tweet something about oh I love this
film or I love I went to see this gig or
blah blah blah and like 10 people go I
was glad I wasn't behind you and you
know what it's a perfectly harmless joke
right perfectly harmless I get it I
understand why people do it but I get it
every single time someone does it so
just think for one second has this guy
ever heard this before has he heard this
thing before is it a fun thing to say to
him because to me if I go to a gig
Cinema it's a nightmare because I don't
want to be in front of anyone I go out
of my way to be as far back as possible
which when you can't see means it's
impossible or you know sit on the island
a sit I take it seriously and every
single time they say it now that's just
a tiny example but recently people said
have started saying oh you mustn't body
shame I thought well that's interesting
cuz body body shaming is sort of
something that um you know certain
people say that all that's what a
snowflake talking about body shaming but
actually it really I think yeah that's
what you're doing that's what people
have done to me for the last 30 years
they body sham me like because they've
talked about my stature and I felt
ashamed that's body shaming I mean
that's what that is I would never have
thought of it as that I just was
embarrassed just made me feel shy and
made me not want to go out but it's body
shaming and actually having it named you
just think oh good for you and it's the
younger generation who do it they're so
great and they just say no come on
that's body shaming and you think oh
that's such a such a lovely sort of
thing to have in my Armory to going of
go yeah that's exactly what you're doing
uh and again 90% of people they mean
nothing by it and I get it but it's just
boring and 10% of people it's you just
think oh you're you're very unpleasant I
am I never I'm so glad to hear that
because it's really changed my
perspective because um and I mean
genuinely mean that like I wouldn't sit
here and just go yeah I agree it's just
I genuinely have learned something yeah
and
um and I think I think it's I think it's
because of what I how I phrased the
question at the start in the sense that
a lot of people feel a ton of Shame for
being slightly shorter which is again
it's uh it's it's a point point of being
different um and I've never heard in my
experience someone say but it's
completely right that wherever they go
they must be continually reminded of of
the fact that they're taller than
everybody and how that might might make
them feel when did that first start
happening in your life well sort of in
my teenage I was I was I was sort of
very tall from about 177 probably I was
always tall but kind of nice oh you're
the tallest in your class and that's you
know which is quite a fun thing to be
you know and that's what you want you
want to be 6'2 right that's what you
know anyone who's 5'9 or 67 we all want
to be 6'2 uh and yes so sort of 1718 and
when I was off to University which again
is very you know so I'm sort of this guy
who is Much Too Tall and is awkward
about being tall who can't see anything
and who's quite an introvert anyway uh
and so and sort of had this full self
anyway from when he was 9 years old and
his dad left and everything's okay um so
you know there was a real sort of storm
of things Brewing there as I say all of
which have bought me good things in the
end but uh you know I think um meant
that you know I didn't I didn't live the
life I should have done for many years
cuz I was sort of hiding away from
things some things I have to hide away
from because with my eyesight I just
can't it's not safe for me to do various
things and something's just my height
and sort of think I'm going to look
stupid oh I'm going to look stupid I'm
going to roller coaster thing and so
what if I come what if my legs don't fit
on that and you know just silly silly
little things and you know the world
will not the world is not shy in letting
you know that you're weird you know that
there's something weird about you uh and
certainly that's what I felt I felt
weird and of course as soon as you feel
weird you have to sort
of you know you live with it and your
behavior sort of changes and you're
going to go and no I am a weird person
so I have to hide that away or explain
away why I'm weird you know I'm very
grateful that the one thing I always had
was I was good with words I was able to
put things into words I was always able
to make people laugh uh and so I for
years I I've been able to paper over the
cracks of all of that because I had all
this stuff but I knew that I could sit
in a room and make people laugh and I
knew I could say the right things to
people and and so I I sort of I I I got
away with it for years and years and
years is the truth quick one I have some
exciting news this episode is brought to
you by Mercedes-Benz who recently got in
touch to support the D of CEO thank you
I've been quite the fan of their cars
for some time now so I jumped at the
chance to work with them as one of the
most well-known luxury Brands out there
and through getting to know their brand
on a much deeper level I came to learn
about our shared values on Innovation
striving to create a better tomorrow
some of you may know if you follow me on
Instagram that this year we invested in
a Mercedes-Benz of our own and honestly
it's transformed my life but not only
that we also use Mercedes-Benz to pick
up all of our guests on this podcast
this way the dire of a SE experience
really starts from the moment they're
collected and we can be in total control
of how that introduction looks and feels
over the coming weeks I want to talk to
you about Miss EQ which is their all
electric car range and how their
Innovative Next Generation technology
and sustainable benefits are changing
the game in terms of their electric
driving for businesses but in the
meantime if you'd like to stay up to
date with the full range and find out
more about how Mercedes-Benz can work
for you and your business such
mercedesbenz Fleet and let me know how
you get on quick one from our longest
standing sponsor here I I can't tell you
over the last i' say over the last
really it's been about two and a half
years it was really um post-pandemic
how much my health has become such a
huge priority in my life hu has been
probably the most important partner in
my health Journey because I've been in
the boardrooms I've been to their
offices tens and tens and tens and tens
of times I've seen how they make their
decisions on nutrition and I trust it I
trust the brand to keep me nutritionally
complete and that is something that I
fight for every single day in the chaos
and the busyness of my life and that's
why it's s such a wonderful thing to be
able to talk to this audience about a
brand and a product that is so
unbelievably linked to my values and the
and the place I am in my life of valuing
the gym exercise movement my mind my
breathing and all of those things and
most importantly my nutrition that is
the role he heel plays and so if you
haven't already tried heel and you've
been resistant to my my pestering then
give it a go and let me know how you get
on you you referred two times now to
this storm in your 20s where kind of I
guess this was the point about your true
north you must have realized that you
were far from your true north and you
needed to kind of turn back
or get across towards your true north
what was this storm in your 20s well I
don't know it's it's an interesting one
really because you know professionally I
was doing the thing that I loved you
know I started working Telly at 21 I
haven't had a day off since and you know
I was being successful because I because
I came from a home where I watched TV
and I was in an industry full of people
who didn't watch TV it was very very
easy for me to rise through the ranks
and to make shows and to invent my own
shows and to sell them because you know
I felt very very at home uh and so I was
been successful and I was you know ex
producing shows and and all sorts of
things uh and you know I had kids very
young uh which I'm delighted I I did cuz
I'm 51 now and they're like both in
their 20s which is amazing you know what
my big presenting issue was was was was
was a food addiction and and and weird
Behavior around food which which I can
sort of see would be what a
nine-year-old would have would have set
up for himself uh and what do you mean
by that well I think if you if you are G
to be an addict which is almost always
how do I run from this pain how do I run
from the fact that you know I'm not
where where where I need to be when
you're nine food is probably the only
thing that's available to you food
attachment maybe you know there's
there's there's only a certain amount of
things a 9-year-old uh has at their
disposal Hot Wheels I mean there's
there's not a lot you can get addicted
to uh and so you know I I would have
addictive behaviors around food and that
I never sat and thought oh I've got a
problem with my life I never thought
that I never thought oh you know I'm I'm
not who I'm supposed to be but but I
definitely thought was why why do I have
these eating behaviors that's weird uh
and then a way they explained my
weirdness away for me I mean you're
weird because because you you have this
weird eating patterns that's the thing
that makes you weird and you think no
that's lots of things that make me weird
um and so that's the thing that I went
to get help for you know so that's the
first time I went into therapy uh which
again from my background is not
something I would have considered uh but
it had got to such a stage and I so
tired of this
behavior of how weird it was and how
dumb it made me feel what was the
behavior just o overeating and you know
binge eating and all that kind just
inability to control food in any way
whatsoever or if I was controlling it
just being incredibly strict so either
sort of dieting or or being out of
control with food which is much more
common than I think we allow as a
culture I think you know alcoholism and
drug addiction we get we understand and
there there's Pathways to sort of uh
getting better but I think food
addiction is is is is the sort of last
taboo but you know I haven't spoken
about it before the the messages I get
from people just saying yeah that's me
or you know my husband came into the
kitchen and in tears and just said
that's that's me that's been me for 20
years and that that's the thing that
I've got uh and has never spoken about
it to people so I think I think it's
really really really uh common also why
wouldn't it be you know given the food
industry right why wouldn't it be why
why would why would food addiction not
not be thing and so I think yeah those
behaviors where you just go do you know
what I've got these wonderful kids I've
got this great career and yet I'm still
secretly eating and feeling deeply
ashamed of myself you know what what's
that right and after a while you think
oh maybe it's not the food maybe it's me
you know maybe the food is a symptom of
something rather than the problem uh
which of course is the case you know
booze is never the problem is it drugs
are never the problem the what you're
running from is the problem so yeah I
went to therapy and honestly from the
first session I did I I um that's my
path to getting better and well you
never not be an addict but that's my
path to kind of going okay I get it I
see I see what this is most people I
don't think will understand when you
when you say Bing cheating and
overeating I think a lot of people
listening think well I I overeat yeah
yeah yeah you know what I mean but but
what I've read from what you described
is a very very different to just
overeating a big meal once in a while
can you give me some detail as to what
you mean by yeah and again look it's
it's it's shaming for me to do so but
but a good good example would be I
remember one of the first years with
with a you know talking to the therapist
about it and and it was it was sort of
mid December so I wasn't going to see
him for a few weeks and he said look I
hope that you know hope Christmas day is
not too triggering because people eat so
much on Christmas day you know the
classic thing on Christmas day oh my God
you know at all this and ate all the
chocolates and the crisp and we had a
meal anyway and then there's cheese at
night and blah blah blah and I said
honestly I've eaten like it's Christmas
day every day for my 20s and 30s that's
how you know that's what I've done when
I'm in in an episode you know everything
is like Christmas Day I'm not eating
because I'm hungry I'm eating because
the food is there and because I need I
need to not be sitting by myself you
know and thinking about whatever I need
to be thinking about it so you know it's
that it's that idea it's that it's it's
that sort of it's not oh aren't I
naughty I had a cream cake you know it's
aren I naughty I had a cream cake and
then I had the other three and then 20
minutes later when like there's even the
tiniest amount of space I went out and
got some more food you know it's that
it's it's I me it's an addiction there's
no other way of putting it it's like
having a bottle of vodka then having
another bottle of vodka then having
another bottle of vodka it's the same
thing uh and the second you shine a
light on it listen some people listening
will will won't believe it exists that's
by the way absolutely fine you know it's
listen we believe what we believe but
I'm talking to the people for whom this
Behavior might feel familiar or who've
got friends or relatives to whom this
Behavior might feel familiar it's real
you know it's a real thing uh and it's
quite hard to get your way out of
because you have to eat right but
there's ways through it and the first
way through it is to shine the light on
it and just say oh no no no that's uh
that's me and to and to and to try and
take that shame away from it a bit when
did you realize that it was a in your
own words a strange Behavior
because I've got a friend who's been
through a similar well I've got two
friends who been through very similar
things um one of them's I mean they're
the two close people and you know I know
they've both talked about it very
publicly um one of which in a podcast
one of which does talks she talks about
it all the time on her Instagram and
I've the two closest people in my life
went through that and for one of them
who again she's talked about this
publicly um that resulted in bulimia um
and a bunch of other very uh destructive
eating patterns how did you figure out
that that it was different well I think
you you can't you know you can you can
fool everybody except yourself you know
finally and just you know a lifetime you
know when I was a kid I would secretly
eat and I would find ways to get food
and to you know and my mom would go oh
where have all those crisp gone that's
weird and you'd be like and you know
then she started hiding the Christan
places cuz she thought they kept going
missing just every day of every month of
every year since then just just hunting
down and finding the food that I wanted
uh and feeling ashamed about it
afterwards so I I knew amongst the
success I was having and the friends I
had and the lovely time I was having
with people I knew I had this weird
secret thing that wasn't going away and
that made me unhappy and certainly made
me unhealthy uh and that probably at
some point I was going to have to do
something about but it took it took a
long time I'm shocked about how long it
took before I finally went do you know
what this is I need to do something
about it but is we often understand how
normal our behavior is by comparison
yeah did were people saying things to
you
like like making little jokes and
comments and stuff like that no not
really I mean I could tell I was
overweight but but like most addicts you
know you can it's amazing how secret you
can be about things
is the truth you know how you can buy
things in secret consume them in secret
lock yourself away uh you know not be
around people just so you can eat um you
know and plus of course don't forget you
can then go out for a pizza with all
your mates who were just having their
one meal of the day and you've been
eating all day but you think it great I
get to have a pizza as well so you know
socially you can eat a lot as well and
then go home and eat more and eat more
convenience foods and and and what have
you um so yeah I always
knew I always knew it was I always knew
something was wrong but again I think
probably I'd added it to the list of
things that were weird about me that I'm
tall and I can't see and I got this
weird food thing so I just thought do
you know what you're not really fit for
this world is the truth you know and you
have all of these things that are up
with you so I think I just put it in the
list of things I wasn't probably I
wasn't built to live the life that other
people were living and again of course
these days you realize everyone is
everyone's not built everyone goes home
and does something weird not everyone
but you know what I mean so many people
have got their thing but I didn't know
that in in those days I didn't know I
just thought I was uniquely you know not
fit for these times being a kid born in
the 1970s from a working-class
background as you've said is you know
the idea of therapy that the notion of
mental health is quite an alien one so
that that day where you decide to make
the call to to a
therapist what's what's going through
your head on that day honestly I I was I
was I was really ready for it is the
truth I wasn't even kind of I wasn't
even I was I was praying that it was
going to work rather than thinking it
wasn't going to work and from the second
I walked in there's a guy called Bruce
and he's brilliant and he you know said
talk me through the problem just you
know and I said oh blah blah blah this
is the problem and I'm you know overing
but you know maybe it's okay because you
know blah you know so I was giving it
all this and I was saying but actually
it's it's sort of fine because you know
I'm I'm doing this and you know I'm uh I
I can I can control it uh and he let me
talk for about 10 minutes and he just
said um and how's that all working out
for you and you thought yeah well you're
right it's working out terribly for me
and from that moment he had me I just
okay let's go on this journey and like a
personal trainer you just think okay I
trust you you know absolutely you've
seen it all before uh you understand all
of these things you can use my
cleverness to your benefit uh and it's
just been a I'm so immensely grateful
for everything that he's done and the
wisdom he shown me uh and one of the
things I try and do in the books and in
everywhere is is is try and pass that on
because I was lucky enough to be able to
afford this guy who's not you know not
insanely but it's difficult to to find a
therapist uh and part of my job is any
bit of wisdom he passes to me is I try
and pass on because that's I feel like
that's something that I can do and try
and give people the the thing that I've
been given what are some of those ideas
that he those kind of unlocking were
there because I'm thinking I assume
there was like some bit of Eureka
moments where someone says something
you've kind of you detailed one there
where he says well how that how's that
working out for you were there any like
thoughts that he's given you that Bruce
has given you that you can that we can
all apply to our lives that will help us
understand ourselves better or free
ourselves from whatever we've imprisoned
ourselves with yeah I think I think his
key thing is is is this idea of Shame
and the things that make us feel ashamed
uh because here's the thing if you start
feeling ashamed you then start feeling
ashamed of being ashamed in the same way
anyone who ever had a panic attack would
tell you if you stop panicking you then
Panic about panicking or if you start
feeling anxious you're then anxious
about your anxiety uh and that's the
absolute thing you have to stop that's
the cut off so if you're feeling shame
or you're feeling Panic or you're
feeling anxiety let it be okay it's
there for a reason it's looked after you
for many years okay and which is another
thing you got to make peace with this
way that you've tried to protect
yourself through shame or through Panic
or anxiety right just let it be what it
is and once you do that it burns itself
out and listen it'll come back tomorrow
and it'll come back the next day but
what it doesn't do is spiral and spiral
and spiral and lead you to self-medicate
you know if you can just let shame be
what it is if you're going to let panic
or anxiety or however you experience
what it is however you experience the
thing where you just realize that this
ain't right you know this is not who I
want to be or how I want to be whatever
that feeling is for you let it be what
it is for a while because it's not going
away anytime soon you know if you want
regime change right that's slow you know
that's that boots on the ground you know
it's bit by bit so let it be what it is
allow it shine a light on it and he'd
always say you know if you're in a
moment of
Shame and you can become conscious about
it in some way right so say I've just
eaten some food and I'm feeling ashamed
about it because I just sitting there
and just thinking that was so dumb why
have I done this again uh have a
conversation with yourself he said right
now that conversation that's you talking
to you okay the both both of those bits
are perfectly valid now one bit is the
one that's harmful to you that's you and
the other bit is the bit that's trying
to save you that's you as well and the
key thing is is just stop practicing the
muscles on the one that's trying to save
you you know just give it a bit more Air
Time Each time just give it a few more
arguments each time the other one's
never going away and it never will any
addict will tell you that's never going
anywhere it's power and some days it's
like so powerful you know but you have
to let the other side of the argument
you've got to give it some strength
you've got to send it to the gym you
know and that's that's the thing it's
it's saying you're always going to have
this all right because most people's
addicted behaviors or whatever it is
come from childhood and come from a self
that we built up almost always to
protect ourselves from something okay
so you have to love it a bit you have to
love this thing that you've set up to
protect yourself but also you have to
talk to it and when you're talking to it
you have to understand that there's two
sides of yourself and you've got to
build up the one that's talking to it
you just got to build it and build it
and build it and give it strength uh and
it's hard to do and you'll find
different ways of doing it and different
people will find different ways but just
remembering that the one that's saying
hold on maybe I shouldn't have a drink
you know that that is equally valid as
the one who's saying I should have a
drink the one who's saying you should
have a drink he's got a point of course
he's got a point you know it kind of
works for you it nums things you know
listen you wouldn't do it if it hadn't
worked you know and you like it uh so
that's it's valid but this other one is
also valid and maybe maybe listen to it
bit more often and just give it a bit
more air time and then over the years
you might find that it's got more power
than the other one is that what you
found yeah I I have found it and listen
it's really really hard is the truth uh
and I get it with with alcoholics and
drug addicts you you can just cut off
drinking booze and and and taking drugs
it's incredibly difficult and I see the
struggles that people have with it and
and again it's a lifelong thing and
every day you think please today just
let me drink today I would love to have
a drink you know you'll never meet an
alcoholic who wouldn't just love to have
a drink today
um and with food you do have to eat so
you have to you have to put in a
slightly more different set of rules but
you know you just have to give yourself
boundaries and know that you mustn't
cross those um those boundaries but yeah
I think that honestly shining a light on
things is the thing talk to people about
it talk to people you love you know
you'll be shocked and I was shocked when
I opened up to people and the people
closest to me I opened up and they went
yeah of course of course I know of
course I know that uh but once they know
about it they can help
you know and that's very powerful and
it's very very important and then you
know it's it's nice for me to be able to
speak publicly about it because I do
think probably there aren't enough male
role models saying that food can be
difficult and food can be an issue um
and so I'm happy to be one I'm sort of
not I'm embarrassed don't get me wrong
it's embarrassing for me to talk about I
absolutely put that on the record you
know I'd rather not be talking about it
but the things that come from it are
more powerful and the more I talk about
it the less power it has over me and
hopefully the more I talk about it the
the less parot might have over other
people one of the things I've learned
from sitting here with with people from
all walks of life that have been through
a variety of different traumas is um I
used to think that we could cure this
stuff like we could go to therapy we
could read this thing read this quote
spin around tap our head and it's gone
yeah and I've come to learn that that's
it's never gone yeah I I now I almost
view it in my head as almost the scales
and if you what you're trying to do is
in fact make the allow the decision to
be made by the the better side yeah but
the the trauma or the the beliefs that
you've built as a child about the world
and yourself and your relationships
whatever is always going to be there and
it can be triggered and infl like a
flame with oxygen I I think that's it
and the key is not to panic when it when
it rais his head again the key is never
to think oh I'm never going to be rid of
it the key is to go oh I'm never going
to be rid of it that's the thing as soon
the second you go oh it's always going
to be there it's very freeing because
you kind of go okay listen every now and
again it's going to flare up but I don't
need to panic I don't need to go all
this work I've done all this work I've
done on myself all these books that I've
read and it's still there it hasn't gone
away and the second you go it's staying
right it's like a sofa you don't like in
your living room right it's not going
anywhere okay you just have to learn to
live with it you know sometimes you can
look around you don't even notice the
sofa anymore and sometimes you go oh my
God look at that sofa right it is
staying and if if you it gives you a lot
of power to know that it's staying and
and that when it's in charge which it
will be sometimes uh that it's okay just
to go no listen just let it let it do
its thing and the one thing that that
addictive part of your personality wants
you to do is panic you know that's the
one thing it wants because that's where
it thrives you know it thrives on the
chaos that's what it wants it wants you
to be off balance so you have to sort of
occasionally just go I get it you're in
charge for a few days or for a week or
so or a month uh you do your thing I'm
going to try and just live in good faith
in the rest of my life and and and just
sort of let you burn
out 20 years in the in the TV business
roughly it 20 yeah so well 30 really if
if I still count as being on TV business
now which I sometimes I forget I am
that's a long time to be in TV tell me
tell me about that phase of your career
and really like what it um what I guess
the question my the question I wanted to
ask you is how come you were so
successful in TV I know no one ever
likes blowing you smoke up their own ass
whatever but um you were very very very
successful you you produced some
unbelievable formats that you know go be
Beyond luck or CH you know so in
hindsight why why are you well I love
well it's a good question I mean I love
and one I feel more comfortable talking
about now I've sort of I've sort of
stepped off that that Carousel now I
think that I loved television you know
and I loved seeing what entertained
people and I I got quite mainstream
taste so I it was in my DNA I wasn't
having to leave University go to
television and think right what do
people like I never I've never ever ever
had to go into work and say what do
people like right I sort of
know that something I like enough people
will like that it's a TV show so I've
always loved that I've always loved
creativity I've always loved you know
sitting down with a pen and paper and
knocking things into shape and I've
always Lov Sport and the formats of
sport and Knockouts and stuff like that
so in Jeopardy that's very very natural
to me as well uh but then I also for
reasons unknown to me I love sales I
love selling you know I absolutely love
going in and pitching
uh and the thing I love about it is
working at what people want and why uh
and how they're going to respond and how
to give them the thing that they want uh
and so that combination of I would come
up with things I was proud of uh and
then I would try and sell them and you
know that's the thing that's the thing
that that I love if I've had any success
it's been thinking of ideas that I would
like to watch and then packaging them in
such a way that someone at Channel 4 or
the BBC will give you 4 million quid for
it which is a big ask you you know
selling a TV show is quite a big askk
it's like being a car salesman you know
you don't need to sell that many cars to
be successful you know and the TV is the
same way you just got to make sure that
you've got the best car out there uh and
so yeah I think I think a mix of the
introversion of loving sitting down and
working things out and working out
formats and then the the extra version
of being able to say to people I think
this is really going to work for your
channel you know those two things
together have always driven me I'm
creatively I'm incredibly ambitious I
love to create new things uh and in
business terms I'm also incredibly
ambitious which is I like to build value
and I like to make money for people
there's two thoughts there which in my
head almost sit in Conflict one of them
is I I make things that I would love to
watch and then figuring out what other
people want well I that's the thing is
I've I've never really I've never
bothered thinking about what what people
want and I think the second you do that
that's a lie actually when so enderal
which which which I ran with with with a
group of people for many years after big
brother and various things there was a
point probably sort of 2006 2007 where
we got so huge and so powerful that we
could sort of sell anything if that
makes sense or not that we could sell
anything but people were so desperate to
have product from us that they were
buying substandard things so you know
there's a couple of times where I went
in and we sold shows that actually I was
thinking I don't know about this and
it's very rare that I would go into a
pitch meeting thinking I don't know
about this one but they would buy it in
the room and then you got and then you
got to make it and guess what it's
really hard to make cuz no one cares
no one watches it because they can tell
it's not doesn't come from anyone's
heart so you don't get a second series
and TV business is all about second
series and third series you make no
money from from from the first series so
we I've definitely been in rooms where I
pitched stuff that I didn't care about
uh but every time there's something you
care you really care about uh and you
can sell and then you will give it your
absolute best shot making it because I
sort of I know how to make it cuz this
this is the thing I want to watch it was
like books I I wrote books that I would
like to read that I didn't see out there
uh and with TV programs it just oh my
God you'd have an idea in the morning
just go I would love to watch that I
would love to watch that then you sit
down you Workshop it you work it out and
then you go and Pitch it and you know
that was my entire career I never really
got involved too much in the in the in
in the in the real business side side of
things and you know in exploitation and
rights and foreign sales and
distribution and all of that I was just
sat in a creative Hub really just coming
up with ideas just sort of feeding the
end
uh and I was able to do it because I
would sort of be doing it anyway I would
be I would sit at home and do that if I
wasn't in that office I would be
thinking this is the thing I would love
to see on TV and I was just lucky enough
to be in an environment where uh I could
have an idea on a Tuesday and we could
set it on a Thursday uh and it's comes
from I loved it but the second the the
second you second guess yourself or the
public or go what would people like I
don't I don't buy it I don't buy it when
people write books like that I don't buy
it when people make TV programs like
that and I was surrounded by people in
that industry early on not so much at
endal where we were TV lovers but
earlier on where I was it was full of
people who were just in it for the
lifestyle and who didn't watch Telly
there's people even now who don't watch
Telly you just think come on do
something
else what is creativity to you then so
so you know you've described a few
things there but what at its Essence
what is creativity and how does one can
one go about being more creative or
becoming more creative yeah it's it's a
it's a tricky one that because it's
always a it's it's it's it's always just
been the way that my brain has worked I
was I was talking to um husband of a
friend of mine who's a who's a he's a
workingclass french guy who is a math
genius this kid so he grew up in the
Baner of Paris uh and at about 11 years
old gets plucked out of the school
system and taken to this like a call for
mathematicians he's because he's a
genius and since has made a fortune in
the city right do algorithms right
that's his thing trading algorithms
right because it's the maths uh and so I
was talking to him we were on holiday
recently and I said
um so you just you come up with stuff
that's new that other people haven't
spotted he's like he's yeah he does a
French I went to his accent it's very
almost comically French uh and he was
saying yeah yeah that's that's that's
exactly what I do and I say how do you
experience that I said because I know
how I experience it and I experience it
there's five or six clouds of things
going around the outside of my head at
any given time something I've Just Seen
On TV something I just read in the
newspaper something something somebody
said to me something my mom said to me
uh something that's happened at home
five different things and occasionally
two of those things will bump into each
other and you go whoa I never thought of
that before uh and so without saying
that I said how do you experience
creativity and he said well I just I got
all these Concepts sort of they sort of
rush around the outside of my head and
occasionally two of them will bump into
each other or three of them will bump
into each other and suddenly I've got
something new and that's how I've always
experienced creativity now is that
useful to people I don't know other than
to say keep your eyes open and your ears
open all the time and be listening to
the world just see how the world is
spinning see how it's working and
sometimes that is if you're in TV it's
seeing how a particular television
program works that's sort of a very
direct bit of copying but almost always
it's then you're on the bus and someone
says something to their kid or someone's
late for school and they're running and
you kind of go wait a minute that
reminds me of something so it's it's
eyes open ears open all the time and
just allow things to bump into each
other I would say there's a point I
there's another piece there which I've
just noticed from you saying this which
is I love the analogy of the clouds so I
was thinking okay so I need more clouds
in my life which is more points of
inspiration and then the second thing is
well there's loads of people have got
loads of clouds but they don't have the
intent to connect the clouds which is
like you have a uh you've designed a
life where you have you actually have
commitments to make the to when the
clouds bounce to turn it into something
a lot of people's clouds are bouncing
and they're just going oh look the
clouds just hit each other yeah I think
that's probably I've never thought about
I think that's incredibly wise two
different things yeah firstly increase
the number of clouds which is increase
the amount of people if you want to be
creative by the way you don't have to be
it's overrated uh but increase the
amount of clouds increase increase the
data points that are coming into you you
know the people you're seeing or you
know just go and do something different
go and learn Japanese whatever it is
something that gives you a different
cloud and then yeah it's I guess yeah
professionally they they've had to be
bumping into each other for for my whole
life so it's it's completely natural to
me but yeah if you can force yourself
sometimes to to to sort of think of the
things that have gone around your head
think of the things that happened to you
today think of the things you watch
think about a film you just saw and why
you liked it or a film you just saw and
why you didn't like it you know think
about an argument you just had with your
mom and what she said and why it's
annoying uh and you know is the same
argument you keep having is there any
way of fixing that in a different way so
just keep those clouds going and then
you know occasionally let them just sort
of intersect and that's yeah I think by
and large that's where ideas come from
you know and it's you talk about it a
lot on this podcast as well hard work is
also a thing yeah you know actually
putting the hours in you know it's all
very well to go oh I just had the idea
on the bus and then I I came in but you
only have the idea on the bus cuz you
spent four hours the previous day with a
blank piece of paper in the office just
thinking oh God I got nothing you know
because that's dislodging so many things
in your head so you yeah you you have to
you have to work on it and then
occasionally occasionally the gods give
you a little gift I I I I've thought so
much you know because I think um I think
we're all artists in some respect in our
own way whether it's blogging or DJing
or if it's writing or making TV I think
that and I also think expression is so
it's almost therapy for us so I really I
really I've got behind this idea of the
last year of like we all have our own
form of Art and when we express
ourselves it's good for our mind so the
the the advantage that I think me and
youve both had is we've been in careers
where that art has been monetized or
there's been a real reward for it so it
come so there's an incentive to drive it
out of us but there someone driving a
lurer up and down this country walking
the dog this morning before they go and
you know go go and work their job in a
factory or or you know I see all of the
tags we get on a Monday when the
episodes come
out how do they go about creating that
incentive to to to when the clouds to
connect to turn it into something or to
even write it on a piece of paper you
know yeah you you're quite right we we
both have very short routes to
monetization yeah but I sense that's
important to both of us as well and so
we we we've probably sort that out you
know and found found a career where
where that where that happens and it's
interesting you know if you're a lorry
driver the greatest invention of the
20th century the thing that changed the
world more than any other invention is
the Lorry driver who when he was sort of
dropping off his load at the docks in
Boston and you know he's got all the
kind of stors taking everything out the
back of his uh you know lry and then
putting it in another sort of uh big
container to put on the ship just went
what if the container on the back of my
Lorry was the same container that went
on the ship you know uh and what if you
take that off and you take the container
from the ship and you put it back on my
Lorry and then I drive it back down to
San Francisco what if you did that and
invented the technology for you know the
container crates as we see them now and
opened up all of World Trade right
that's one Lorry driver just having one
idea on one day you know and absolutely
changed the world so there's no
Industries where you can't be creative
because if you're a Lor driver you
really really know your business right
and you know uh what causes delays you
know when your work is harder you know
the 5 minutes you knock off here there
or the other you know when you turn up
at a place the paperwork you have to go
through you know that three of those
forms could be two forms you know you
know that if people knew you were
arriving 10 minutes earlier you could
leave half an hour earlier because you
know break patterns could be changed you
know all of that stuff and so work on
that if that's the industry you want to
stay in and if you want to make TV
programs or write books or write Social
Media stuff then just consume it a lot
you know uh and I just think you can
only be creative in an area you're
interested in that's the truth you
cannot be creative in an area not
interested it just doesn't that's not
how creativity works because creativity
has to sort of be buzzing around all the
time and be and be curious so work out
what it is you're interested in and then
surround yourself with it as much as you
can it's hard if you if you're if the
area you're interested in is not your
job because that's something you have to
do in your own time but if it's
something you're serious about and
you're curious about and you have the
abilities then just yeah think about
except what you said which is intent
which is surrounding yourself by by more
things uh and then you know making those
connections the the intentionality I'm
always trying to understand because it
links back to what you've done with your
books which have been just the most
insane Smash Hit I've ever encountered
in this studio um with with TV formats
how intentional how much is that sort of
int I don't even know if
intentionalities is what intentionality
versus like um luck and chance and
serendipity because you've seen this for
your entire career yeah so how much can
you predict the success of these things
oh you can never predict funny enough D
noal which I just mentioned is the only
show where after the pilot I thought
this is a hit I thought there is no way
this show is not going to be a hit and
it was a huge hit but it's the only time
and there's been shows I've done before
where I think oh this has got a good
chance and they've disappeared and shows
where I thought I don't know about this
and they've been huge you know you can't
tell at all and that's why it's
important to trust yourself and do stuff
that you love so the intentionality is
that
if I put a lot of work into something
and a book is that's the hardest I've
ever worked on anything if I put a lot
of work on something I want the upside
if it works to be you know I want there
to be an upside if it works you know I
want if I do this properly I want there
to be no limit to what can happen with
it you know CU I like output for you
know if I put in input I like output to
come out uh and with TV it's sort of
easier because you as you say you can
you can invent something on Tuesday
instead on Thursday with a book you got
to spend two years and so all the way
through I sort of thought if I do this
well I think this has got a chance so my
my my my sort of creative mainstream
brain was thinking that I wasn't
thinking I need to make it more like
this I need to make it more like that I
100% wrote the book I wanted to write
but as I was writing I was think you
know if if you do this properly if this
probably hits then people will really
like it uh if no one had bought a single
copy or if I'd showed it to an agent and
she just said this is not for us that
would have been fine too by the way
because I'd written it and that's
creativity in and of itself is is is a
thing you you can paint a painting in
your attic and it's like the monaa
because you did it uh but the fact that
when it did come out people liked it was
uh yeah I'd say was a huge bonus I read
a quote and it said um there's a reason
why great um great books become
blockbuster movies but blockbuster
movies never become great books and he
says one of them is written by committee
and one of them is written by a solo
author with their own ideas and
Inspirations and I remember thinking
that [__] that's so true yeah that's
interesting isn't it JK Rowling yourself
you know yeah Spielberg bought your book
he has bought the book yeah well he
bought the rights of the book I hope
hope he's bought the actual book as well
um you never know uh no it's true and
listen publishing is a very interesting
industry having come out of Television I
know you had a big hit book and it's a
very very no this is a big hit mine was
mine was a pebble in the ocean but it's
an interesting industry and if you bring
any sales techniques into the world of
books it's I think it's a sight shock to
their system and and and and and it's a
very very you know I love it's such a
nice kind friendly industry but you know
I come at it from a TV angle which is
you know I'm TV you look at the
overnights and there's millions and you
know that's what I've always judged
things on and and and and in books it's
a slightly different market so I've
loved being able to apply some of the
things I know and some of the techniques
I know so the the book itself listen
like with anything you have to be proud
of it and I'm so proud of these books I
love them okay that that's the that's
the absolute B point of all of this but
once we've got that I've loved the
selling process which I think a lot of
authors don't love I love it I love the
marketing process I've got something I'm
really proud of I want as many people as
possible to read it that's what I want I
want as many people as possible to enjoy
this book I want to entertain as many
people as possible uh and that's a
process that I've loved and a process I
think publishing is not quite set up for
is the truth and it's it's been fun sort
of finding finding a way through that
and when you wrote this book you didn't
you wrote it all before you had showed
anybody from what I understand yeah the
first book yeah the first one well
because only because I'm on telly and
you know that thing of celebrity authors
and you know it'll be easy to write a
chapter and say would you like to
publish it and and of course they would
you know because then again you don't
have to sell a whole lot of books to
make make a profit in that industry so I
thought I I thought I I think that they
would just say yes and I wouldn't have
any clue if it's any good so I I I wrote
the whole thing just to because I wanted
to prove that it was a good book sent it
to an agent who I trust very very much
comes from a very similar background to
me uh and I said listen you got to look
me in the whites in the eyes and tell me
would you represent this book if I
wasn't on TV and she said listen I would
100% easy of her to say but she did uh
and then before just as it was going out
to um the Publishers in the UK we sold
it immediately in Germany right and
Germany is a big Market Germany and they
love crime fiction and from that moment
I just thought oh okay I can now I sort
of believe I I liked the book but you
know well sometimes I hated it and
sometimes I liked it but but I thought I
think it's got something but the second
Germany bought it and Germany have no
idea who I am you know couldn't care
less who I am uh and they bought the
book just on the strength of the
manuscript and I thought from that
moment do you know what everything now
I'm just going to go full steam ahead
because someone who doesn't know I'm a
celebrity has just bought this book and
it's and it's been top 10 in Germany for
like two years it's it's like nonstop
out there uh and they don't know who I
am I'll go out there and do press and
they're like they have no idea who they
just know the books uh and yeah so I was
glad that I kept it secret secret cuz I
never had that worry of are people just
publishing this cuz of who I am cuz I I
I could see straight away from other
territories that people who had no idea
who I am and for Spielberg again within
I mean we' only literally only just sold
it so you know there' been no hoopla no
announcements and he bought the rights
immediately cuz he' read it and liked it
and he didn't know who I was so that
from that moment I just thought I have
the right now to really put my foot down
on the accelerator and and sell this
because I because I because I believe in
it you said something sometimes you
loved it sometimes you hated it talk to
me about doubt and as it relates to your
creative work of your career generally
well I think I think I mean anyone who's
sitting at home and writing a book right
now uh you know half the time you're
just thinking what is this this is
absolute nonsense or you know this that
wouldn't happen or you just think no
one's going to be interested in this
story um and you know I still I thought
it would book two and book three both
when they came out I just I know I think
maybe you've lost it uh and then the
reaction is is is sort of reassures you
uh each time and listen I'll lose it at
some point um yeah it's it's it's
impossible to to you know I'll read it
I'll read back scenes the next day and
you know something will make me cry or
make me laugh or or there'll be a nice
line I think oh that that's that's
something but you're you're so close to
a book that if you were thinking it was
good something's up you know you have to
think it's awful
because you know it's like it's never
going to be the the beautiful shiny
thing that's in your head you you know
when when I'm I'm writing the fourth one
at the moment in my head I know the I
know the story and it's so you would not
believe how gleaming it is and how
intricate and beautiful and like
perfectly crafted and toned it is uh and
I know that the thing I handed in will I
hand will not be that you know because
there'll be compromises and I'll make
mistakes and there just be stuff that's
wrong so I'll always be comparing it to
the thing that's in my head you know and
everyone every writer in their head has
the perfect novel it's all up there uh
and the thing you you you you give is is
not that thing but but the key with the
key with novels I think is if people are
engaged with your characters and love
your characters and the nice thing is in
this this but people the characters
speak to people which is which is great
if people love your characters then the
rest is just craft the rest is just
getting the story down you know the rest
is is just sort of putting them on a
journey because if people love your
characters and they care what happens to
them so you can make stuff happen then
and you know that the stuff that you
make happen people will care about quick
one I'm both extreme honored and excited
to announce our brand new sponsor for
this podcast American Express I pretty
much use my American Express business
Platinum Card daily so many benefits it
comes everywhere with me it's an
absolute no-brainer there's now a new
range of benefits the first benefit is
that you get 10,000 bonus points each
month on top of what you're already
earning when you spend £10,000 per month
and those points are then exchanged for
rewards for anything from holidays to
flights to Tech to designer purchases
and finally the one that's had a real
impact for me and our team is you can
make use of their company expense
management tool ax expense it's free to
use Simple to set up and even integrates
with your accounting software which our
finance team are very happy about so
with that said if you'd like to find out
more about how you can get hold of
American Express's business platinum
card then search American Express
business platinum card and if you've
already got a business Platinum Card let
me know how you get on when you look
back at the success of this book and we
talked earlier about these clouds that
you kind of pieced together what are the
clouds that you connected in order to
produce this book yeah it's well a
number a number of clouds a love of
crime fiction that's and that just sort
of vibe that idea that I sort of love a
puzzle and I think so just that's that
kind of thing of that that's an itch
that's kind of thing I would I would I
would like to do it then I had um an
idea about a a a former civil servant
putting off a massive bank heist uh
there was a former civil servant who who
worked in a very boring job in the civil
service but it was so boring that people
assumed that uh he was a spy because no
one's job can be that boring so you work
in whiteall I bet you're a spy and he
wasn't he was just a logistics guy and
so I had that idea and i' had it for
ages just this older guy who' got this
plan that he wanted to to pull off and
then my mom lives in a retirement
community Retirement Village down in
Sussex and I was just down there and
just looking around I think I said what
this would be an amazing amazing place
for a murder you know like Agatha chrisy
esque and suddenly those things have
look you want to write a book and you
had that idea about that the civil
servant or sort of spy who had this sort
of big plan and then you thought oh
there's this there's this place and this
group of people they they're all a bit
older and this place would be perfect
for murder and then in that Community
they have every there's all sorts of
different clubs this French conversation
Club on a Tuesday in a Wednesday art
history and literally the name Thursday
Murder Club came into my head which is
another cloud all the clouds come
together they go into your brain and you
just think bum okay let's start tomorrow
because when the clouds come together in
the right way when the things connect
together in the right way you sort of
it's it's interesting you sort of you
kind of press your foot down on it to
see if it holds it's like it's like a
sort of plank of wood has suddenly
appeared underneath you or like a little
rope Bridge has appeared and you sort of
tread on the first plank of wood you
think oh that's quite solid that plank
of wood and then you step on the next
one you think oh that's solid and you
step on the next one and most ideas by
the third or fourth plank you your foot
goes through you think oh yeah of course
I can't do that because XY Z but
sometimes and you'll have experienced
this sometimes you keep walking along
the planks of wood and you're like I
mean these are these are solded all the
way to the other side this feels I'm
going to walk across this bridge you
know I'm just going to I'm going to take
the chance I'm going to walk across this
bridge and you know that that's that
that's what happened really and that's
that's how and that also is how I
experience new ideas and creativity is
that that idea of you just try and put a
bit of weight on them and it holds you
put a bit more weight and it holds and
you know if it keeps holding then it's
it's worth persevering with i' I've been
through a really interesting um Journey
with some of my ideas where I've thought
of an idea tested the planks all very
solid I've got very close to doing it
and then my gut has just gone don't do
it because of like you know and and then
I've had obviously as I said many other
ideas where I've had an idea to wake up
the next day think oh God put that on
the shelf and it's funny you know it's
funny how you can go on quite an
emotional Journey a conviction Journey
with an idea and at the very last minute
you can go you know something's just not
right here but I tell you the other
reason for that I think is because you
because you have walked the walk and you
you've built businesses and you know you
know what it takes you also sort of know
if you press the green light on an idea
amen there's a huge amount of work ahead
of you and responsibility and you
sometimes you just think I am not
prepared to do that there's not enough
upside in this for me creatively or
whatever it is for me to do it uh and
that's the same I know for example that
idea like a novel I knew two years
before I wanted to write it but I just
didn't I knew I didn't have the I knew
what it would take and with this social
media idea I know at the moment it would
be all consuming and that's not where I
am you nailed it that's exactly what
what where it happens I get right to the
point of pressing the button and then
I'm I'm staring the cost in its face the
cost I've known so well this thought of
okay this is going to be five years and
everything which and when I think of
cost now I think okay that means my
relationship with my partner is going to
get significantly worse my relationship
with my friends is going to get worse
all my businesses are going to see less
of me and is that really worth it and
what is the upside there yeah but it's
exactly that but again that's not
something you worry about at 21 at 21
you just think yeah great Bring it on
Bring it on and now you you you know you
have the luxury of you know you and
that's the thing about having 10 ideas
sooner or later one will come along you
just think hold on I really like it it
feels monetizable it's not going to take
up a massive amount of my time because
of the way it's structured and you know
my my my relationship will will will
survive and my friendship will survive
and I've still got this thing that I'm
going to love and you just you just have
to sit and wait for that idea to come
along because you know you can't no one
wants no one wants to be that guy is
working 24 hours a day their whole life
because it's honestly the truth is it's
not that hard to succeed if you're
willing to you know do everything and to
work 24 hours you know it's not it's
doable with an idea and hard work but
that's not that's not how your life
should be so the success of this book
you know there's there's there's a
monetary element to it you're not you
don't have an expensive taste so that's
not really moved you much there's the
the kind of validation of your own
create singular Creative Vision which
has been validated sincerely how has it
impacted your happiness at all um I
think do you know what I think it's I
think it's a reflection of my happiness
rather rather than a sort of a source of
my happiness I think it's a book that I
have only been able to write from a
happy place and from a place where I
feel comfortable with my demons and
comfortable with myself and uh you know
I think it comes from that you know the
characters uh the four main characters
all of him are sort of like quadrants of
my own brain uh I think you can tell
that I love those characters and they
love each other and that's probably not
something I could have written 10 15
years ago that comes from happiness or
it comes from it comes from
self-acceptance you know it comes from I
am there's bits of myself I'm very
prepared to sort of put out there uh uh
to entertain and to to you know uh so I
think I think it's I think it comes from
happiness rather than being the source
of it uh obviously it brings me an
enormous amount of joy and it's a load
of fun and it's fun that hit in other
count so you get to go abroad and you
know talk to them about it and you know
uh that's fun but yeah and you know in
this book the third one there's you know
there there's lots of there's there's
lots of love there and I'm getting
married this year and so it's it's all
little things where you just think the
books listen they're crime stories
there's murders and you know there's you
know there's red herrings and there's
Clues and all sort of stuff so that that
sort of it's got the Agatha Christie
thing but the spirit of the book is
hopefully a spirit that can that can
only come from having you know having
found some happiness with yourself what
what is happiness to you because it's
such a it's such a small simple word to
describe so much yeah and it's yeah it's
it's a it's a really tricky one I the
key thing is is is to know that you
can't be happy all the time you know
it's not like a kind of you wake up
every morning with a huge smile on your
face you know there's still going to be
parking tickets you know and the drains
are still going to be blocked you know
and there still you know there's just
there's always going to be trouble I
think it's a I think it's a am I am I
content with myself um am I when I sort
of close the door and I'm with either my
partner or by
myself do I feel contentment do I feel
there's a nagging I think I've had years
and most people do just there's nagging
questions all the time it's just
something or something's not right or am
I in the right place or uh and just that
feeling that no hold on I think I think
I'm in the right place which I think you
have when you're a really little child
and I think probably we lose over the
years and I've been very very lucky um
and yeah you have to fight to regain
that which is I feel happy and safe and
secure and that I'm in the right place
are there any questions still for oh
goodness yeah of course there are I mean
my one you know I I want to I've always
as I say because I don't see so well
because I'm tall I've always been a
Observer of life I've always been an
outsider right I've never really got my
hands dirty is the truth uh and you know
I see I see the problems of the world
and you know I I try and help
financially and all that kind of stuff I
I try and do good things you know I've
never really got my hands dirty and I
think probably in the next decade I
should get my hands dirty a little bit
um you know just helping and you know
making people's lives a little bit
easier uh that's the thing and that's
the thing I've always been frightened of
uh well because because you know I never
really took part in life quite so much
as other people because of my height and
because of my eyesight because all of
those things I always felt I needed to
be on the sidelines and I needed to just
commentate and been very really happy
doing that by the way I'm an introvert I
love I love I love to do it but uh I do
think you have a responsibility to leave
the world a better place than you found
it listen there's not much point to us
being here but if we got anything is to
do that it's to sort of say well look
for whatever reason I was put on this
Earth You know the one thing I can do is
try and leave it in a better State and
so that that's I think my the question
for the next 10 20 years that sort of
service what can I do how can I help
what about any personal questions you
have about yourself and your your um you
know you talked a lot about not feeling
especially when you were younger not
feeling like you were right for the
world or that you fit in the world do
you have any of those personal questions
left remaining no I I think you know I
do think that I'm probably not quite fit
and right for the world but I think lots
of us do I think that's the that's the
thing you know the world is a it's a
weird place I mean it's weird that we're
here right I mean it's odd right it's
peculiar it doesn't make it it makes no
sense listen we can look for a higher
purpose if we want and that's great even
with that it's weird right and it's
weird that we have this civilization
it's weird that we have this
Consciousness it's weird that we're
millions and billions of people around
the globe or you know in different
countries all thinking Sly different
things with Sly different
consciousnesses it's weird you know it's
life makes no sense uh and so the key is
to stop trying to find the answer to to
to what is life because that's not
something you're ever going to find H
and and and I think the question is is
is how can I you know how can I help
either how can I help if you find
yourself in a position of power or how
can I ask for help if you find yourself
in a position where you don't have power
and th those are two very difficult
things to do these are questions that I
I think could only come from an
introvert yeah I think that's I think I
think that's probably I think I'm quite
an alpha introvert I'll say that uh but
yeah listen I I I love going home and
shutting the door that's my favorite
thing family at home two kids yeah well
they're not at home anymore yeah early
20s yeah 24 and 22 wow yeah crazy right
do do you ever worry that because of
that that what happened with your father
that your and you talked about your your
first marriage didn't work out do you
ever have concerns or worries or like
because I I often wonder when we've had
like somewhat dysfunctional homes how we
then either continue the cycle or
sometimes it seems that people go very
much the opposite way and really put
measures in place to make sure they are
the exact opposite the antithesis of the
experience they had how have you found
yourself rea when you know you became a
dad yourself yeah listen I I I obviously
I I did the same thing my dad did so I I
carried on the circle but with the
intention of breaking the psycle I
that's the point I mean listen our
intentions are are one thing what
actually happens this is something else
and again I think I was on a fault line
I think anything I'd chosen to do in my
20s would have collapsed you know um but
you know I have a relationship with my
kids that I didn't have with my father
and they're I love them and they're
hilarious and they're brilliant and I
love what they do for a living and
that's all wonderful um yeah you can
never you
can you can be held prisoner by trying
to fix the sins of your childhood is the
truth CU here's the truth you you're
never going to fix them right they're
not you're not going to fix them you
know you you need to build something for
yourself uh and I think by sort of
thinking no I want a family because I
wasn't able to fix mine you know so I'm
going to make sure that this next
Generation I fix it in the Next
Generation and of course it's doomed to
failure you know you're you're not going
to you're not going to create the thing
you wanted to create I think um so yeah
you just have to uh you just have to you
know whatever happened to you and
whatever you're trying to prove you s
you sort of have to just you have to
kind of do something for yourself not
not to react against other people I
think not in a search for justice or but
of course you search for justice and my
my you know I was of course I search for
justice and and yeah and I was search I
was searching to to to fix things and I
you know I was not able to do either and
neither would I ever be able to but but
in order to try and do it yeah I you
know I I made my own mistakes you're
getting married this year yeah December
December yeah it's exciting isn't it for
me so for you you're not that F no it
was nice to it was nice to read read
that you're getting married this year um
I've think been thinking a lot lately
been talking to talk my best friends
about this idea of like one partner for
life and I'm going back and forward I'll
be honest with you yeah I'm here to be
honest I was on you know I got
girlfriend she's upstairs but um I was
on um I was on don't tell her this I was
on she might listen you she probably
will but she um I'd say the same thing
she's not listen honestly she can listen
to you all day I don't I think there's
so many podcasts I don't know if she
actually listen to them so because we
record for so long I was on Google this
weekend looking at chimpanzees mating
patterns because I'm trying to figure
out I'm trying to come to my own this is
great listen I hope she looks Google
history wow chimpanzee mating PS this
guy loves me I'm trying to figure out if
because they've got like 99% the same
DNA as us if they stick around with the
same partner forever or if they make
within groups yeah what's your take on
this I know this is such an obscure
question to ask what's your take on
whether we're meant to be with one
person for the rest of our lives uh
listen I'm I'm sure some people are not
meant to be with one person but it's
very very hard to do that and not hurt
people and so if you decide if you
genuinely decide I am not made for that
right enough of this human beings aren't
monogamous right forget that because
lots of us are right so forget it right
if you're not made for it if you don't
want to be monogamous right take
responsibility for that and taking
responsibility for that means not
hurting other people and it means not
being in a relationship with someone who
thinks that that is uh a prospect or a
possibility uh and an awful lot of
people take that get out thing of I just
don't think is it natural I don't think
it's natural
and if you think it fine right don't
impose it on everyone else don't impose
it on the women you're with don't impose
it on Partners you know let them be who
they want to be cuz it really suits a
lot of people very very well I'm in this
relationship now that I pray with all my
heart last forever I'm absolutely
certain it will because we're made for
each other completely made for each
other uh and lots of other people at
home will tell you that as well and lots
of people say they're in the wrong
relationship but don't universalize it
don't say oh listen everyone should just
chill out you know like we should we all
have multiple partners it's just it's
the Natural Way listen I've been
Googling chimpanzees listen it's cool uh
you know that's all fine but it's you
right it's your responsibility and if
you're not ready to do it okay you got
to stop wasting people's time uh and
perhaps when you are ready to do it
you'll be like okay this is I mean my
heart was so was so ready and open when
I met Ingrid um my partner and her was
as well you know we both had our
misadventure
that's the truth you know we really have
uh and but we absolutely were both ready
and you know perhaps you're not ready to
be monogamous at certain ages you know
perhaps you're not but you have got to
stop putting on other people and stop
putting on chimpanzees and just say what
am I what am I prepared to do and
perhaps there's compromise you know
perhaps there is sacrifice perhaps you
perhaps that's something that you know
you'll measure against other things in
the in the you know and and and you'll
feel that you don't want to sacrifice
and don't want to compromise but don't
for a single second say that's human
nature it's not as you making a
definitive decision at a definitive time
in your life you know that's such a good
advice and I think I needed to hear that
but part of it is because and I've said
this in a the last two episodes or so as
it's been front of mine for me is seeing
of my close six best friends total
failure in relationships over and over
again and me me being earlier in in that
and going why why are 50% of these
things breaking i' gone to the shop and
bought a TV and the guy said oh by the
way there's a 50% chance that's not
going to last probably would have bought
the TV yeah but at the same time you
spend years coming out with creative
ideas and you know 50% of them will fail
but you do them anyway true you know
it's not a TV you know it's a it's a
life and actually 50% that's not the
worst bet in the world obvious what 50%
chance of lifelong happiness I
mean you take that bit when but also you
know yeah you know you know by and large
you know so the odds can swing in your
favor and it's uh you know I always
think the best dating thing anyone ever
said to me and it's true for politicians
and all sorts of things they say
literally the first date is when people
tell you who they are and then
everything after that is backpedaling so
on your first date with your partner you
would have told her who you were and
what you want from life and where you
want to be and ever since then you've
been backpedaling or saying oh actually
no actually now I think about it I want
this but you know listen listen to what
someone told you on the first date you
know that's who they are and that's what
they want what other than the story
lines and um The Narrative and
everything that's in this book what at
the very fundamental level do do you
hope that this particular book the third
the third installment is doing for the
reader at a very fundamental yeah level
well you know my job is always
entertainment you know that's my thing
and um in this book honestly it's the
very Act of of of starting the next
chapter that's that's that's what that's
what I aim for you know you finish one
chapter you think I have I've got to
read the next one I want people to start
a long plane Journey oh god I've got
eight hours and at the end of it going
oh my God that's great I got to read
that whole book you know I want people
at night to go just going to read one
more chapter I just want to read one
more chapter uh and I want people at the
end just to go you know what that was a
thumping good read you know that really
really entertained me um I'm going to
tell my friends about it that's the
thing you notice about I it's so true in
your business but in books as well
everything is after the first little
initial flush everything is Word of
Mouth yeah everything you know and these
it's like people telling people telling
people telling people and if You' got
the right product then you know it
spreads because people tell their
friends but I want to all I want to do
is entertain people you know I'm I'm not
I'm not going to be you know Shakespeare
you know I want to give people a great
read that entertains them that makes
them laugh that makes them cry I want
them to try and work out who the
murderer is uh you know that's what I
want their Li their lives to be
minuscule improved by having read the
book Richard as you know we have a
closing tradition on this podcast where
the last guest asks a question for the
next guest great and I only get to see
it when we open the book so here we
go what was the most valuable lesson
you've learned in the last
year and why oh who's that question from
can't tell you really that's part of the
mystery oh that's fine what's the most
valuable lesson I learned in the last
year gosh that's a good question um I
think
that uh I'm talk about my my my my kids
my my son was working at wager mama and
hated it hated it he wasn't well treated
is my view uh really didn't enjoy it but
he's a
grafter uh and he's now working at a at
a computer games Museum which is like so
far up his street is amazing uh and I
think the lesson that I've learned is I
should have said to him two months
before he quit you should just quit this
is not do you know what this is not
making you happy they're not looking
after you this is not you you know and I
know working hard is important but you
have got to quit and go and do something
else it's the truth and I think if
you're not being looked after and you're
not enjoying yourself and you don't see
this as a path to riches you're allowed
to just say I need to find a workplace
where I'm respected which is what he's
done now Richard thank you thank you for
your time and thank you for um you know
you've done so many amazing things in
your career especially on you know TV
for the first sort of 20 20 30 years of
your career but um writing a book that
has touched so many people in such a
profound way that is in every corner of
the world that you wrote yourself as you
said it takes Word of Mouth to make a
book reach these Heights and that in and
of itself is a testament of how amazing
profound resonant these books are on so
many levels so it's an inspiration to me
you know I was I got so because I'm
writing a book at the moment with
pinguin understanding especially the
creat the creative Journey how you write
where you write the discipline that it's
also excruciatingly painful to you and
you describe it as a marathon has
inspired me so much and there's
something really really special I think
in throughout this book but also just
the way that you create in trusting
yourself yeah and really in building
anything it's like what what you said
earlier about make something that you
would love yeah sometimes in my life
I've not done that and it's and it's
never gone well works right and that's
really sort of made me orientate myself
towards focusing on that that true
alignment in my creativity in what I'm
building and in my work so thank you for
that um I I think people are going to
absolutely love this book well I know
that for a fact to be honest um and I
hope to be back here with you someday
and have continue this conversation
thank you Stephen my pleasure
[Music]
oh